Creating exceptional
user interactions with
your web application requires
the coordination of many parts,
including people in systems.
Keeping all these parts moving
through the production process
smoothly requires efficient
management tools and processes.
In this video, you'll learn
methods for effective
workflow management.
Let's start with a definition
of workflow management.
Workflow management
is the process
of coordinating tasks, tools,
and team members to ensure
efficient and effective
project completion.
One of the benefits of
workflow management is that it
facilitates the coordination
automation of work.
It also enables work to
be shared among the team.
Workflow management
also provides
protection against
issues becoming serious.
Let's now explore one of the
most critical components of
workflow management,
Version Control Systems.
These systems act as
the backbone of your
development process,
ensuring that all team
members are in sync,
and that your project remains
stable as it evolves.
Version control systems
or VCSs, like GitHub,
help development teams store
versions of changes
in their code,
track history, and share
their code with
other team members.
A version control
system serves as
a storage depot or
repository for all the code,
images, videos, and other assets
a front end team produces.
It also allows the team
to track code changes and
enables the team to revert to
previous versions of the
code if it's needed.
Imagine a team of front-end
developers working
on a new website.
Each developer is assigned
different parts of the site.
One is handling the home page,
another the contact page,
and another the navigation menu.
Using GitHub, they all can work
simultaneously on their
respective parts.
When the navigation
menu developer
accidentally introduces a bug,
they can use GitHub to revert to
a previous version without
affecting the other's work.
Meanwhile, they can check on
each other's changes and
collaborate seamlessly,
ensuring the entire
project stays in sync.
Version control systems are
primarily used to
manage a code base,
but modern VCSs can also help
teams automate parts of
the development process.
Teams need to be able
to integrate and
deploy their code when it
reaches certain milestones.
While version control systems
help you manage all of
the assets involved in a project
and can help you manage changes,
it's source control
integration that
manages a much more specific
subset of your work,
which is the source code itself.
Source control integration is
the process of
combining code changes
from multiple developers into
a shared project repository,
ensuring that these changes
work together correctly.
Once code from all developers
is integrated, debugged,
and complete, it's ready
to be deployed for users.
Source control systems
can deploy directly to
the systems that deliver
the application to users.
Developers can use
source control tools to
manually integrate and
deploy source code.
However, modern software systems
can automate these processes and
continuously integrate
and deploy code
as it is put into the
version control system.
These systems or pipelines are
called continuous
integration and
continuous deployment
pipelines or CICD pipelines.
CICD pipelines automate
the testing, integration,
and deployment of code,
ensuring that new
changes are quickly
and reliably delivered to users.
These tools and systems create
an environment that
can move quickly,
deliver value to users,
and respond rapidly to a
changing digital environment.
Developers use the term
agile to describe this
development method.
Agile methodology is a
process of developing
software that includes an
iterative development approach,
continuous feedback, and
flexible responses to change.
This approach enhances
collaboration
and delivers value
incrementally.
The agile method and the
tools that enable it were
developed to accommodate
today's continuously connected,
rapidly moving
digital environment.
The agile method has many
characteristics that make it
an ideal approach for
developing modern software.
One characteristic of agile
is iterative development.
In this approach,
agile teams develop
software and sprints typically
over a two week period.
They work on small,
manageable pieces and
deliver functional increments
at the end of each sprint.
This allows for regular
assessment and allows
the team to rapidly adjust
the project's direction.
Agile also emphasizes
continuous feedback
from stakeholders and end users.
This feedback loop helps the
developers to ensure that
the product meets
the user's needs
and allows for quick
course corrections.
Agile teams can be
flexible and embrace
changes in requirements even
late in the development process.
This flexibility ensures that
the final application is
continuously relevant
and valuable.
The agile method offers
enhanced collaboration
as it encourages
close collaboration
among all team members,
including developers,
testers, product owners,
and stakeholders.
Agile also includes
meetings like
regular stand-ups,
sprint planning,
and retrospectives, to examine
past work and facilitate
collaboration.
Version control
systems like GitHub
are integral to
agile development.
They enable multiple team
members to share code,
track changes, and
manage versions.
This ensures that code
is continuously up to
date and that conflicts can
be resolved efficiently.
Agile teams use
continuous integration to
ensure that the code is
always ready to be deployed.
They also continuously deploy
code to automate the
deployment process,
allowing new features
and fixes to be
released frequently
and reliably.
Agile uses self organizing
teams where teams
organize around the
project's needs
and the skills of
the team members.
Team members are empowered
to make decisions
on most aspects of the
development process.
This autonomy
fosters innovation,
accountability, and a sense
of ownership among
the team members.
In this video, you learned
methods for effective
workflow management,
including version control,
continuous integration,
and deployment of code
and agile methodologies.
Understanding
workflow management
will make you a more effective
contributor as you continue
on this journey to
becoming a developer.